All right.
So now that we've seen the document and all of its craziness all the methods and properties that it
holds inside.
Obviously we didn't see them all or talk about them all but you saw how many there are.
We're going to start by taking a look at the first batch of methods that you should know.
The most important methods that have to do with selecting so selecting is a really important part of
the DOM manipulation process.
Typically we select an element or multiple elements and then do something with them.
So here's a simple example with paint cards or paint chips we select one and then give it a new color
or do something with it.
We could animated.
We could move it around we could delete it.
We could select something and then add a new child within it a new element we could select a form and
add two new buttons to it.
We can also do things like add events so we select an element a button.
We did this early on actually two videos three videos ago we selected a button on Google.
And then when you hover over it we alerted some text.
So when we want to add some events and interactivity we still start by selecting and there's a bunch
of different ways to select using the document.
I'm going to show you a couple the first one we'll tackle.
It's called Get element by I.D..
This is a method on the document.
So we call it as document Dodd get element by I.D. and it does what it sounds like.
It takes an I.D. and it finds the matching element that contains or that has that I.D. on it and it
returns that object.
So if we go back to this simple example we could have any markup but the markup I have to keep it easy
is from a couple videos ago.
It looks like this.
We have an H1 some paragraphs I've got a well a form and I have an image that has an I.D. bear dash
photo.
Let's add one more I.D. let's do this paragraph here.
I.D. equals text.
Now how about Maine.
Sure.
So I have two ideas on this page.
Now I can select those elements using document dot get element by I.D. So it's a method that exists
on the document and I pass in an I.D. as a string.
So I have bare photo that was one.
I'll try that and you can see what I get back.
It returns an element to me.
What's annoying.
I went over this a couple of videos ago.
It printed out as HDMI out which is not very useful but if we save it to a variable just to make it
easier I'll call this image and then console dot DJI our image.
We can see its true object form as we talked about earlier.
Here are all the properties I have.
So this selects based off of an I.D. but it's not returning to normal to me even though it looks like
it is it's returning an object in this object represent that one image with the I.D. And if we scroll
down we will see I.D. is set to bear photo matching this I.D. right there.
We also have properties like the type of the Element tag name is set to image.
We could find the image source right here.
This is the image you are.
So when we call document dot get element by I.D. pass in a string.
If there is a match and only if there is a match for that I.D. we get that element back as an object.
The Dom representation of that element.
This image remember you're only supposed to have one I.D. on a page or one of each I.D. so there shouldn't
be multiple bear photos.
And if there were for some reason we still only get the first one that matches.
So we'll only ever get one element back and if we pass in an invalid I.D. or something that's not on
the page let's do document Duckett element I.D. Of get element by I.D. of bear in all caps we get nothing.
So no error.
We just get no because there isn't an element with that I.D. and we'll do one more example.
We have something else with an I.D. this paragraph.
The idea is Maine if I select that I.D. using document to get element by I.D. Maine I'll save that to
a variable called P.
We look at P It looks like it's age GMO but remember it's actually an object console that D.A. R P here
is our object and it contains a lot of the similar properties a lot of the same methods as our image
but different values.
For example we scroll down all the way down here.
We don't have a source attribute because it's not an image we have tag name set to P because it's a
paragraph it's a p tag we have the text content Lorem Epsom blah blah blah that's the content of this
paragraph and there's a whole bunch of other things.
One other important topic that we'll see a couple of times in this section is that this object here
is of a particular type.
It is something called an HMO paragraph element.
If we look at our image I still have it here.
Let's do a console dot DVR image and we look at what type it is.
We scroll down to the bottom.
It's called an HD him out image element.
So they're both HD hymnal elements but one is an image element.
One is a paragraph element.
Now in this course we haven't talked about prototypes we haven't talked about constructor functions
and classes.
So we won't go into much detail here but all you need to know is that there are different categories
of elements on the page and some of them have their own type like an HMO paragraph element and an H
came out image element every image element has a source.
For example a paragraph doesn't.
These are just different patterns for these objects.
So whenever we get an element by I.D. or any of the other select methods we'll see in the next couple
videos they return some sort of element to us.
It could be an image element it could be a paragraph element it could be something else.
We haven't seen yet and that's kind of it for document does get element by ideas.
So we call it on the document.
We pass in some ideas string and if there's a match we get that one element represented as an object.
If there's not a match we get no.